Welcome back everyone to this lecture autocorrelation plots and we'll also discuss partial autocorrelation
plots in autocorrelation plot shows the correlation of the time series with itself lag by X amount of
time units so the y axis on this to them and plot is the correlation coefficient value and the x axis
is the number of time units of lag.
Let's explain this idea of correlation with a simple example.
We'll start off by trying to imagine how to calculate the plot value for x equals one.
Imagine taking your time series of length t that you're trying to actually get a autocorrelation plot
for you make a copy of it and then you delete the first observation of copy number 1 and the last observation
of copying number to.
Now you have two Time series of length t minus 1 for which you can then calculate a correlation coefficient
between these two time series.
That is the value of the vertical axis.
X equals 1 in your plot's it represents the correlation of the series lag by one time unit and then
you can go on and on and do this for other lag values of x.
You shift by 2.
Next the new shift by 3 next.
Or basically remove to remove 3 and that would actually end up defining the plot or those y values for
each of those X like units.
Now let's see some typical examples of what is autocorrelation plots actually look like so typically
there's two types of autocorrelation plots.
Their first type is an actual gradual decline.
So we can see here that when we calculate an autocorrelation plot for this time series we see this sort
of gradual decline.
There's a little bit of noise as we go closer and closer in time series but eventually it goes down
to zero.
The other common autocorrelation plot to see is what's known as the sharp drop off.
So you get a large value at first.
Maybe a large negative value and then it goes kind of hovers around 0 until it zeros out.
So again these are the two main types of autocorrelation plots you'll encounter either a gradual decline
or a sharp drop off the actual interpretation and how it relates to Arema models can actually get a
bit complicated but there are some basic common methods we can use for the Arema model our main priority
here is to try to figure out whether we will use the A-R auto regressive or any moving average components
for the Arema model.
Or we could possibly also use both as well as how many lags we should actually use in our Arema model.
That is that differencing step.
In general you would use either auto or aggressive or moving average using both of these terms is a
little less common when actually applying the A-R and may terms you'll end up setting values for P and
for Q If the autocorrelation plot shows positive autocorrelation at the first lag that is lag time 1.
Then it suggest to use the auto regress of terms in relation to the lag if the autocorrelation plus
shows negative correlation at the first leg that it suggests using moving average or a terms and this
will light the Seidl actual values of P D and q to provide your Arema model P is usually decided by
the number of Laeg observations included in the model D is the number of times that the raw observations
are differenced and Q is the size of the moving average window also called the Order of the moving average.
There are also partial autocorrelation plots and these are even a little more complicated than autocorrelation
plots.
But let's just show you the basics.
In general a partial correlation is a conditional correlation.
It is the correlation between two variables.
Under the assumption that we know and take into account the values of some other set of variables.
For instance consider a regression context in which Y is equal to some sort of response variable.
And then we have x1 x2 and x 3 as predictor variables.
So x 1 x 2 and x 3 are predictive variables trying to predict the response of Y.
The partial correlation between y and x 3 is the correlation between the variables determined taking
into account how both y and x 3 are related themselves to x y and x 2.
That is their conditional correlation.
So let's see an example of what that sort of plot can look like.
So here we see a partial autocorrelation plot and you can kind of tell here that it has a similar view
or visual aspect to that sharp drop off autocorrelation plot.
So often when you do a partial autocorrelation plot it looks something like this.
And typically a sharp drop off after Laeg number k suggests some auto regressive K model should be use
that is that should be your value and there there's a gradual decline in the partial autocorrelation
plot.
It suggests a moving average model.
Now identification of an auto regressive model or a car model is often best done with P A C F or partial
autocorrelation function identification of a moving average model is often best done with the HCF or
autocorrelation function rather than the.
And you can view the notebook and research links for a lot more details.
This is definitely a complex topic and it requires further reading than what we're covering here.
Then finally once you've analyzed your data using HCF and if you're ready to begin applying Arema or
Seasonale or IIM-A depending on your original data and you will be providing the P D and q terms for
the model in Arema model will then take in three terms P and Q and we'll see an example of this in the
coding example for seasonal Arema models.
There's an additional set of P-Q terms that we're going to end up seeing.
And these are usually capitalized OK.
So let's see all of this in action with Python and that's models.
We talked a lot about this kind of higher level overview theory.
I think when you see it in action a lot of it will become a lot more clear.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
We're going to open up a Jupiter notebook and play around some data and see if we can build an arena
model to predict it.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.